In the previous video I showed you how
to calculate the transition matrix.
However, knowing the probability
of going from one part of speech
tag to another alone
will not help us much.
We need to be able to somehow
get words into the equation.
Hence we will introduce a new
type of matrix that tells
you about the probability of going
from one word to a part of speech tag.
So let's dive in.
Going back to your very small training
corpus which has the associated parts
of speech sags depicted
by the background color.
In contrast to the transition
probabilities here, you would want to
count the co occurrences of a part
of speech tag with a specific word.
For example the word You appears
two times in your corpus
tagged with the blue
parts of speech stack.
And the blue parts of
speech tag appears 3 times.
So the emission probability for
the word You following the blue
part of speech tag is 2/3.
Let's continue with a more complicated
example the haiku you processed in
the previous lesson, you have the same
tax and can start to fill in the counts.
But instead of counting pairs of tags
you will now count how often a word
is tagged with a specific
tag like now verb or
the other tag like it is
shown in the first column.
Of the emission matrix for the tag and
the word in the non tag is associated
zero times with the word in.
The verb tag is associated zero
times with the word in two and
the o tag is associated two times
with the word in the corpus.
The formula with smoothing for
the emission probabilities be of
wi given the attack ti for
the word is given by the counts of ti.
And the word wi divided by the
corresponding rows in the emission matrix,
which is the same as dividing by
the total count of the tag ti.
With capital N being
the number of tags and
capital V being the size
of our vocabulary.
To recap, you now can calculate both
transition and emission matrices.
And also apply smoothing for
better generalization of the model.
You've come a long way this week.
Great work given the emission and
transition matrices.
You will now learn how to use
them together in order for
you to confuse the part of
speech tags of a given sentence.